on Joe Biden has just released a
statement was religion when medium and
he talks about some other things before
he gets to the heart of the allegations
against him and he says this I want to
address allegations by a former staffer
that I engaged in misconduct 27 years
ago they aren't true
this never happened well the details of
these allegations of sexual harassment
sexual assaults are complicated two
things are not complicated one is that
women deserve to be treated with dignity
and respect and when they step forward
they should be heard not silenced the
second is their stories should be
subject to appropriate inquiry in
scrutiny responsible news organization
should examine and evaluate the full and
growing record of inconsistencies in her
story which has changed repeatedly in
both small and big ways but this much
bears emphasizing she has said she
raised some of these issues with her
supervisors and senior staffers from my
office at the time they both men and
women have said unequivocally that she
never came to them and complained or
raised issues news organizations that
have talked with literally dozens of my
former staffers have not found one not
one who corroborated her allegations in
any way and they indeed many of them
spoke to the culture of an office that
would not have tolerated harassment in
any way as indeed I would not have there
was a clear critical part of this story
that can be verified the former staffer
has said she filed a complaint in 1993
but she does not have a record of this
alleged complaint the papers from my
Senate years that I donated the
University of Delaware do not contain
personnel files it is the practice of
senators to establish a library of
personal papers that document their
public record speeches policy proposals
positions taken and the writing of bills
there's only one place a complaint of
this kind could be the National Archives
the National Archives is where the
records are kept at what is called the
Office of Fair Employment Practices I am
requesting that the Secretary of the
Senate ask the archives do
identify any record of the complaint she
alleges as filed and make available to
the press any such document if there was
ever any such complaint the record will
be there as a presidential candidate I'm
accountable to the American people we
have lived long enough with the
president who doesn't think and then he
goes on talks about Donald Trump that he
talks about his own career
okay let's bring in the apparent
Democratic nominee for president former
Vice President Joe Biden mr. vice
president thank you for coming on the
show this morning we have what we want
to ask you this morning Joe and will I
will join in just a moment for questions
on how you would handle this pandemic
that campaign and other news of the day
but at the start is just gonna be you
and me and I want to get right to the
allegation made against you by Tara Reid
so the former Senate aide accuses you of
sexual assault and please
to our viewers please excuse the graphic
nature of this but I want to make sure
that there was no question as to what
we're talking about she says in 1993 mr.
vice president that you pinned her
against the wall and reached under her
clothing and penetrated her with your
fingers would you please go on the
record with the American people did you
sexually assault Tara Reid no it is not
true
I'm saying unequivocally it never never
happened it didn't it never happened
we're back with Vice President Joe Biden
mr. vice president thank you for being
with us now let's move on to what a
crisis at many call the greatest crisis
since World War two for the United
States 63,000 Americans have died in
this pandemic and I could ask you what
you were going to do in the abstract but
the fact is if you are elected president
in November then chances are very good
if dr. Falchi and other doctors are
right you are going to be sitting in the
Oval Office when this pandemic comes
back again in the middle of flu season
how should America prepare for the
second wave that dr. Falchi says could
be even worse than the first
should be preparing now look Joe one of
the things I've said from the beginning
the president should empower a supply
officer someone who is in charge of
making sure that all the material needed
all the PPP all that all the testing all
the things we know we have to get done
are getting done and use the create the
defense production act fir and make sure
that we also deal with them with the
banking side of this to make sure all
the things that in fact the Congress the
trillion dollar several journalist a
they put out there to help businesses
small businesses stay alive actually get
to small business I'd also establish a
pandemic testing board to finally solve
the testing problem I I'd open up a new
enrollment period for health care I
would also you know some early data
shows African Americans and communities
of color have contracted this disease
and died at alarming rates and I get
economic relief quickly as we can to the
most those most in need to diminish the
impact of this but we have to have that
materials Joe we have to have an
everything from enough swabs to the
reagents the testing capacity to mast
gloves to swine oh and it's he's going
so slowly on this how do you speed up
testing the president says it's
impossible the HHS official in charge of
testing
says it's impossible to get five million
tests at per day
what could the president have done from
the very beginning more importantly what
advice do you give President Trump this
morning on what he should do from this
point forward to make the United States
stronger in the area of testing not only
for the virus but for antibodies well
first of all he should take
responsibility he's in charge he talks
about being the commander in chief in
the defense production act as I said way
back several months ago gives him the
authority to surge in any to any private
entity that they should be making like
ventilators like he went to General
Motors finally they should be doing the
same thing for everything from swabs to
the reagents he talks about all these
machines being available the machines
are available to test but the reagents
and the swabs of the material that get
the answer are not available he should
be moving very quickly to have done that
he should be making sure that we have a
stockpile of all the protective gear
that is needed in order to make sure
that god forbid that this does come back
which it probably will that the
hospitals are not left flat-footed like
they were before that the first
responders are covered so many of those
over 60,000 people who died Joe were
first responders there were doctors they
were there are nurses they were medics
there were police officers or
firefighters etc they didn't have the
equipment so we have to get we have to
get the number of new cases down from
what it is now in order to be in begin
to be able to take control but in the
meantime we cannot let up on what needs
to be done you know one of the things
the every morning this morning I did and
I get a brief from medical docs on the
state of the status of where things are
and you know the former head
the anyway one of the things that were
stated the analogy made he said there's
all these machines well it's like having
a washing machine where there's no water
and there's and you don't have any any
detergent there are machines but you
need the material
why aren't why isn't he insisting that
that be moved quickly and insist that
this this begin to happen and there's
there's so much not being done Joe to
not only deal with what we have in our
hands now
but to prepare for when this is going to
come back
and stay-at-home orders and other
restrictions will be eased or lifted in
at least 21 states affecting roughly 116
million Americans here are a few states
that we're keeping an eye on today
Georgia will lift a statewide
shelter-in-place order for most of its
ten point six million residents the
order requires elderly and medically
fragile residents to shelter in place
until June 12th Connecticut is moving
forward with its first step in a gradual
multistage process of lifting
restrictions on businesses and
activities the rollback is expected to
begin on May 20th which would allow
outdoor dining at restaurants on Monday
Florida will ease restrictions statewide
but will keep the three largest counties
closed and in California state leaders
are closing beaches after they were
packed over the weekend despite social
distancing orders dr. Anthony foul she
is warning two states that are beginning
to reopen their economies but do not yet
have the ability to do contract tracing
take a listen to it the only thing I
could do is from 40,000 feet just
continue to urge the ones who don't have
that capability to really go very slowly
and those that do go ahead and go by the
guidelines the guidelines up very very
explicit and very clear there's a lot of
leeway because we give the governor's
the opportunity to be very flexible but
you have to have the core principles of
the guidelines
you can't just leap over things and get
into a situation where you're really
tempting a rebound that's the thing I
get concerned about I hope they don't do
that so Joe and Willie dr. fauci against
trust that states should follow federal
guidelines and only reopen if they have
a two-week decline in coronavirus cases
and the ability to identify isolate and
contact trace people who test positive
that doesn't seem that doesn't seem like
we have that well no we don't and Willie
that's the madness of all these protests
we saw one in Michigan yesterday where
people were carrying around
military-style wet
and trying to intimidate legislators
like it's pretty surprising that laws
allow them to carry weapons around like
that in the in the state legislature but
that'll be another issue for another
time but what's so fascinating is that
is it this all these governors are doing
if you really look at it is they're
following White House guidelines it was
Donald Trump who announced the
guidelines for the White House last week
and as dr. Falchi has said if they will
follow the White House guidelines that
Donald Trump put out there before he
started darting around wildly then
states would have a much better chance
of being able to be ensured that when
they reopened business those businesses
could stay open and their emergency
rooms wouldn't be slammed yeah and the
state of Georgia has gotten a lot of
attention for opening itself up last
week that opens up even wider today but
it's not just Georgia it's not just
Florida that's beginning to step in as
well as as Mika mentioned places like
Connecticut in Colorado or looking at
reopening but as you say none of the
states meet the full guidelines the
gating as the White House put it to take
this next phase to make this big leap
there's no contact tracing on a scale
that would be required to actually keep
track of all the people who have
coronavirus and isolate all those people
but you're right the governors have
gotten mixed messages he says liberate
the state of Michigan on the other hand
he says he quote totally disagrees with
governor kemp opening the state of
Georgia